---
layout: post
title:	"tables"
date:	2020-01-01 12:00:00
categories:
    - blog
tags:
    - sap
    - tables
---

Data dictionary is the central source of the database management system. The main functionality of the DDIC is to create or alter the tables.

To create table go to ABAP dictionary, `SE11`. Select database option and type in 
the table name(starting with `Z`) and press the `create` button. 
Give a short description, then select the `Delivery Class`. 

* Master Data
> * Data changes ledd frequently
> * Can't be move to Quality to Production.

* Transaction Data
> * changes more frequenly.

* Configuration Data
> * Configurations

* Customizing Data
> * Can be moved from development to quality to production.

* The delivery class controls the `transport of table data` 
>> when installing or upgrading, in a client copy and when transporting between customer systems.
> * Delivery class `A`: Application table (master and transaction data).

Also the set `Display/maintenance allowed` for master records. In case of transaction records, set this to 
`Display/maintenance allowed to limited extent`. 


#### Tabs in Dictionary: Change Table
 * Attributes
 * Delivery and Maintenance
 * Fields
 * Entry help/check
 * Currency/Quantity fields

#### Fields
> `mandt` - Type `CLNT` - client.
>> `mandt` - field in a table means client dependent.

> `init` - Select this flag if a field to be inserted in the database is to be filled with initial values. The initial value used depends on the data type of the field.

> `Domain` - A domain describes the technical attributes of a field, such as the data type etc.  Fields referring to the same domain are changed at the same time when a domain is changed. This ensures the consistency of these fields.
>> Domain -> Value Range -> Fixed values, Intervals,  value tables.

#### Technical Settings
> `Data Class` - The data class defines the physical area of the database (for ORACLE the TABLESPACE) in which your table is logically stored.
>> * APPL0    Master data - Data which is accessed frequently but updated rarely.
>> * APPL1    Transaction data - Data which is accessed frequently and updated frequently.

> `Size Category` - The size category determines the probable space requirement for a table in the database.

> `Buffering` - The buffering status specifies whether or not a table may be buffered.

> `Enhancement` - Extras->Enhancement Category->can be enhance(character-type or numeric).

#### Table Maintenance Generator - TMG
> Utilities -> Table Maintenance Generator
>> * Authorization Group -`&NC&` without authorization group
>> * Function Group - Name of table.
>> * Maintenance type - `One Step`
>> * Overview screen - `100`

After setting these values, hit `Create`.

#### TCODE - SE93
> * Create tcode - `Transaction with parameter`.
> * Transaction - `SM30`
> * Skip initial screen.
> * Name of screen field
>> * VIEWNAME -> table_name
>> * UPDATE -> X

#### Search Help - SE11
> * 2 types
>> * Elementary - Search help for tables or views.
>>> * Selection Method - table/view name.
>>> * Import - Check if we need this value to be just displayed.
>>> * Export - Check if we need this value needs to be filled into the field
>>> * LPos and SPos - Position.
>> * Collective - Collection of elementary search helps.

#### Foreign key
> * The domain of the fields in the tables must be the same.
> * The check table field must be the primary.

#### reference fields
Eg: Amount and Currency, Quantity and Unit of measurement

> `T006` is the standard data base table which contains all the unit of measurements.
> `TCURC` is the standard data base table which contains all the currencies.

#### Types of tables
> 1. Transparent table - 1 to 1 relationship
> 2. Cluster table - Many to 1 relationship
> 3. Pool table - 

#### Adjust database table
> Utilities -> Data base object -> Data base utility. 
Click on `activate & adjust data base`. Click on yes. 

