---
layout: post
title:	"Arch"
date:	2020-01-06 12:00:00
categories:
    - blog
tags:
    - sap
    - arch
---

* SAP - Systems Applications and Products.
* ABAP - Advanced Business Application Programming - language.

### 3 Tier Architecture.
> 1. Database layer 
>> A types of storage(software, tables)
> 2. Application layer
>> All execution happens in this application layer.
> 3. Presentation layer.
>> End users.

### Real Time System Landscape
~~~
Development server -> Quality/Test server -> Live server
~~~

#### Data
> Data has `Business meaning` and `Technical meaning`

> Data element: A single data is defined as data element.
> Domain: For a data element when the technical details are elaborate we use domain.
> WorkArea: An entire row or subset of a database table.
> Internal table: Multiple rows.
> Structure: Definition of workarea and internal table.

##### Dictionary
> The data are defined in the ABAP dictionary.

#### ABAP programming types
> 1. Reports (1) - Executable program
> 2. Module Pool (M)
> 3. Function Group (F)
> 4. Subroutine Pool (S)
> 5. XSLT (X)
> 6. Class (K)
> 7. Type Pool (T)
> 8. Include (I)
> 9. Interface Pool (J)

#### Data types
Integer, Float, Date and Time are `fixed length` data types & rest of the data types are variable length data types.
> 1. Numeric Data types
>> * int, I
>>> Eg: Data <variable name> type I. 
>>> The initial / default value of integer is ‘0’.
>> * float, f
>>> Data <variable name> type F. 
>>> The initial value of Float is ‘.00’.
>> * Packed Decimal, P
>>> Data <variable name> (<length>) type P decimals <no>. 
>>> Data A(10) type P decimal 3.

> 2. Character Data types
>> * char, C
>>> Data <variable name> (<length>) type C.
>>> Data A(5) type C.
>>> The initial value of char is ‘space / empty’.
>> * Numbertext, N
>>> Data <variable name> (<length>) type N.
>>> The initial value is '000', based on length!
>> * Date, D
>>> Data <variable name> type D.
>>> The initial format is ‘YYYYMMDD’ -> (20140425)
>> * Time, T
>>> Data <variable name> type T.
>>> The initial value of time is ‘000000’. format is ‘HHMMSS’
>> * String

> * Hexadecimal

Apart from this there are several derived types.

~~~
Pre-defined type - Cannot set forgein key, also no search help attachment.
~~~

#### Work Process
There are several work-process running in the application layer. To view the various work processes and their status `SM50`.
Work process types:
> 1. Dialogue work process - online user
>> * Every dialogue has a 4 digit number ranging from 0001 - 9999.
> 2. Background work process 
> 3. Update work process
> 4. Enqueue work process - Lock mechanism - Tcode `SM12`
> 5. Spool work process - Print jobs.

#### Primary key, primary index, secondary index.
* Key field is mandatory.
* max: `16` primary key.
* Indexes are used to improve the performance of the select query.
* When a table is created, another table with primary key's as field is created. This improves search. That's why we use key field's while writing SQL statements. 
* Secondary index: Secondary index is possible for other than primary fields. We can create up to 9 secondary indexes per a table.
* 16 primary key, so 16 primary index.
* Steps to create secondary index: Click on index beside technical settings. Click on create index. Provide the index name. Enter. Provide short description. Click on table fields. Select our require fields. Enter. Save, check, activate.


#### Append/Include structure
> * Append Structure - To enhance standard tables. Can be used to only that table.
> * Include structure - To enhance custom tables. Can be used to any table.

#### Value table vs Check table.

#### Search Help
> 1. Elementary
> 2. Collective

#### mandt - client ID
* For data security
* Client in SAP - Highest level in config.
* When we login into a SAP system, we login to a client with client ID. So when we create a table or visualize, we see with table specific to that client ID. If we want our table to be accessed by all we use  `cross-client`. Else we use `mandt` field with data element `mandt` of type `CLNT` length `3`.

#### SAP Environment/Landscape
> Dev: , Quality, Production

#### Cloud ERP vs On-premise ERP
> * Cloud ERP
>> * Cost - predictable, cheaper upfront investment.
>> * Security - In the hands of vendor.
>> * Customization - minimal(depends on vendor)
>> * Implementation - less time to implement.
> * Cloud ERP
>> *  Cost - Upfront investment
>> *  Security - In the hands of organization
>> * Customization - Greater ability to customize.
>> *  Implementation - Takes relatively longer time to implement.

#### Private cloud
> * Internal/enterprise hosting solution which resides inside a company's intranet or hosted data center protected behind firewall.

#### Activate methodology
> * methodology - agile
> *  Guided configuration

#### Operators
3 types of operators in ABAP.
> 1. Mathematical Operator
>> ** [Exponential - 4 ** 5 - 4^5]
> 2. Comparative Operator
>> <[LT], >[GT], <=[LE], >=[GE], =[EQ], <>[NE]
> 3. Relational and Logical Operator
>> AND, OR, NOT

#### Database table vs Structure
> * DB table contains at-least primary key.
> * DB table contains permanent data.
> * Need to specify size and delivery class.

#### Structure
In `SE11` Select the radio button `data type`

