---
layout: post
title:	"tables"
date:	2020-01-01 12:00:00
categories:
    - blog
tags:
    - sap
    - tables
---

To create table go to ABAP dictionary, `SE11`. Select database option and type in 
the table name(starting with `Z`) and press the `create` button. 
Give a short description, then select the `Delivery Class`. 

* The delivery class controls the transport of table data when installing or upgrading, in a client copy and when transporting between customer systems.

* Delivery class `A`: Application table (master and transaction data).

Also the set `Display/maintenance allowed` for master records. In case of transaction records, set this to 
`Display/maintenance allowed to limited extent`. 


#### Tabs in Dictionary: Change Table
 * Attributes
 * Delivery and Maintenance
 * Fields
 * Entry help/check
 * Currency/Quantity fields

#### Fields
> `mandt` - Type `CLNT` - client.

> `init` - Select this flag if a field to be inserted in the database is to be filled with initial values. The initial value used depends on the data type of the field.

> `Domain` - A domain describes the technical attributes of a field, such as the data type etc.  Fields referring to the same domain are changed at the same time when a domain is changed. This ensures the consistency of these fields.
>> Domain -> Value Range -> Fixed values, Intervals,  value tables.

#### Technical Settings
> `Data Class` - The data class defines the physical area of the database (for ORACLE the TABLESPACE) in which your table is logically stored.
>> * APPL0    Master data
>> * APPL1    Transaction data

> `Size Category` - The size category determines the probable space requirement for a table in the database.

> `Buffering` - The buffering status specifies whether or not a table may be buffered.

> `Enhancement` - Extras->Enhancement Category->can be enhance(character-type or numeric).

#### Table Maintenance Generator - TMG
> Utilities -> Table Maintenance Generator
>> * Authorization Group -`&NC&` without authorization group
>> * Function Group - Name of table.
>> * Maintenance type - `One Step`
>> * Overview screen - `100`

After setting these values, hit `Create`.

#### TCODE - SE93
> * Create tcode - `Transaction with parameter`.
> * Transaction - `SM30`
> * Skip initial screen.
> * Name of screen field
>> * VIEWNAME -> table_name
>> * UPDATE -> X

#### Search Help - SE11
> * 2 types
>> * Elementary - Search help for tables or views.
>>> * Selection Method - table/view name.
>>> * Import - Check if we need this value to be just displayed.
>>> * Export - Check if we need this value needs to be filled into the field
>>> * LPos and SPos - Position.
>> * Collective - Collection of elementary search helps.





